.\" Manpage for anonymize
.TH man 1 "04 June 2026" "202606042045-git" "anonymize"

.SH NAME
anonymize \- Anonymous web access and privacy tool management

.SH DESCRIPTION
A self-contained command-line tool for installing, configuring, and launching
privacy and anonymity software. Manages Tor Browser, Tor daemon, I2P, Freenet,
Lokinet, OpenVPN, WireGuard, and ZeroTier. Display-aware: opens GUI browser
consoles on desktops and prints console URLs on headless servers.

.SH SYNOPSIS
anonymize [options] [command] [arguments...]

.SH INSTALL COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Install all client-side privacy tools: Tor Browser (desktop) or Tor daemon
(server), Tor daemon, Lokinet, I2P router, OpenVPN client, WireGuard client,
and ZeroTier. Display-aware — skips GUI browser bundle on headless systems.
.TP
.B servers [tor|i2p|freenet|lokinet]
Install and start all server daemons (Tor relay, Lokinet relay, I2P, Freenet)
when no subcommand is given, or just the named one.

.SH SERVICE COMMANDS
.TP
.B tor
On a desktop: launch Tor Browser. On a headless server: install/start the Tor
daemon and configure the SOCKS proxy.
.TP
.B i2p
Install and start the I2P router. Opens the web console (http://localhost:7657)
in \fB$BROWSER\fR on a desktop; prints the URL on a server.
.TP
.B freenet
Install and start Freenet. Opens the web console (http://localhost:8888)
in \fB$BROWSER\fR on a desktop; prints the URL on a server.
.TP
.B lokinet
Install and start Lokinet. Sets DNS to 127.3.2.1.
.TP
.B zerotier
Install ZeroTier and join the network if \fBZEROTIER_NETWORK_KEY\fR is set.

.SH VPN COMMANDS
.TP
.B wireguard <path>
Import a WireGuard configuration file via NetworkManager (nmcli).
.TP
.B vpn list
List active VPN connections.
.TP
.B vpn connect <name>
Connect a named VPN.
.TP
.B vpn disconnect
Disconnect the active VPN.
.TP
.B vpn status
Show VPN connection status.

.SH PROXY COMMANDS
.TP
.B proxy <port> <name> <url>
Configure a named proxy. Example: proxy 9080 tor https://check.torproject.org

.SH STATUS AND CONTROL
.TP
.B status [service]
Show status of all services, or one: tor, i2p, freenet, zerotier, vpn.
.TP
.B stop [service|all]
Stop one service or all services.
.TP
.B restart <service>
Restart a service (tor, i2p, freenet, zerotier).
.TP
.B check-ip
Show current IP address. Uses Tor SOCKS proxy if Tor is active.
.TP
.B check-dns
Check for DNS leaks.

.SH PRIVACY UTILITIES
.TP
.B harden [firefox|chrome|chromium]
Apply privacy-hardening settings to the specified browser (default: firefox).
Creates a hardened Firefox profile with anti-fingerprinting and tracking
protection settings.
.TP
.B killswitch [enable|disable]
Enable: drop all non-loopback network interfaces (emergency kill switch).
Disable: bring all interfaces back up.
.TP
.B mac [interface]
Randomize the MAC address on the given network interface. Defaults to the
default route interface.
.TP
.B profile [save|load|list|delete] [name]
Save and restore named anonymize configuration profiles.
.TP
.B monitor
Live monitor of active network connections.
.TP
.B speedtest
Test connection speed directly and optionally through Tor.
.TP
.B versions [check|update]
Show configured software versions, or fetch and optionally save the latest.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-download
Force re-download of I2P and Freenet installers even if already present.
.TP
.B \-\-console
Non-interactive / headless output mode (Java installers run with \-console).
.TP
.B \-\-dir <path>
Override the working directory.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable ANSI color output (also honours \fBNO_COLOR\fR env var).
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable bash \-x tracing.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate or reset the user configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show script version.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help message.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B anonymize init
Install all client privacy tools (display-aware).
.TP
.B anonymize tor
Launch Tor Browser on a desktop; start Tor daemon on a server.
.TP
.B anonymize i2p
Start I2P router and open the web console.
.TP
.B anonymize servers
Install and start all server daemons (Tor relay, Lokinet, I2P, Freenet).
.TP
.B anonymize servers freenet
Install and start Freenet only.
.TP
.B anonymize vpn connect myvpn
Connect the VPN profile named myvpn.
.TP
.B anonymize wireguard /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
Import a WireGuard config into NetworkManager.
.TP
.B anonymize killswitch enable
Drop all network interfaces immediately.
.TP
.B anonymize versions check
Fetch and display the latest available versions of all tools.
.TP
.B anonymize status
Show the status of all managed services.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable color output when set (any value).
.TP
.B BROWSER
Browser binary used by \fB__open_browser\fR on a desktop.
.TP
.B ZEROTIER_NETWORK_KEY
If set, automatically join this ZeroTier network during \fBzerotier\fR setup.
.TP
.B ANONYMIZE_NOTIFY_ENABLED
Set to \fByes\fR to enable desktop notifications (requires \fBnotifications\fR).
.TP
.B ANONYMIZE_I2P_VERSION
Override the I2P version used for downloads.
.TP
.B ANONYMIZE_FREENET_VERSION
Override the Freenet build number used for downloads.
.TP
.B ANONYMIZE_TOR_VERSION
Override the Tor Browser version used for downloads.
.TP
.B ANONYMIZE_TOR_HOME
Default .onion URL opened when launching Tor Browser.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/anonymize/settings.conf
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/anonymize/versions.conf
Cached version overrides (written by \fBversions update\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/anonymize/profiles/
Saved anonymize profiles.
.TP
.I ~/.local/log/anonymize/
Log directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/tor/browser/
Tor Browser installation directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/torbrowser
Wrapper script created by \fBinit\fR pointing to the Tor Browser launcher.

.SH DISPLAY DETECTION
Commands that open a browser (\fBtor\fR, \fBi2p\fR, \fBfreenet\fR) and the
\fBinit\fR command detect whether a graphical display is available by checking
\fB$DISPLAY\fR (X11) and \fB$WAYLAND_DISPLAY\fR (Wayland). On a headless
server the GUI browser steps are skipped; service URLs are printed to stdout
instead.

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>

.SH SEE ALSO
tor(1), i2prouter(1), lokinet(1), wg(8), openvpn(8), nmcli(1)
