.\" Manpage for apimgr
.TH man 1 "02 May 2026" "202605021500-git" "apimgr"

.SH NAME
apimgr \- Multi-provider API client for git forges and container registries (think \fBgh\fR, but for everything)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apimgr
[\fI\,PROVIDER\/\fR] \fI\,ACTION\/\fR [\fI\,SUB\/\fR] [\fI\,FLAGS\/\fR]
.br
.B apimgr
\fI\,ACTION\/\fR [\fI\,SUB\/\fR] [\fI\,FLAGS\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apimgr
is a single bash entry point to the REST APIs of several code-forge and container-registry providers. The architecture is self-host-first: each provider has an \fBAPIMGR_<PROVIDER>_URL\fR for your private instance (used by default) and an \fBAPIMGR_<PROVIDER>_OFFICIAL_URL\fR for the public service (used when \fB\-\-official\fR is passed). When no provider is given, \fBapimgr\fR auto-detects from the cwd's git remote and falls back to \fBAPIMGR_DEFAULT_PROVIDER\fR.

Currently implemented:
.B github
,
.B gitea
,
.B forgejo
,
.B codeberg
(forgejo + codeberg use the gitea API).
.br
Stubbed (architecture in place, action functions pending):
.B gitlab
,
.B bitbucket
,
.B docker
,
.B harbor
,
.B quay
.

.SH PROVIDERS
.TP
.B github
GitHub. Self-host (Enterprise) via \fBAPIMGR_GITHUB_URL\fR; \fB\-\-official\fR → \fIhttps://api.github.com\fR.
.TP
.B gitea
Gitea. Self-host only — set \fBAPIMGR_GITEA_URL\fR to your instance's \fI/api/v1\fR endpoint.
.TP
.B forgejo
Forgejo (Gitea fork — same API). Self-host only.
.TP
.B codeberg
Codeberg (Gitea API). \fB\-\-official\fR → \fIhttps://codeberg.org/api/v1\fR.
.TP
.B gitlab
GitLab. Reads \fBGITLAB_API_URL\fR + \fBGITLAB_ACCESS_TOKEN\fR. Uses \fBPRIVATE-TOKEN\fR auth header (not Bearer). Project paths are URL-encoded (\fIuser/repo\fR → \fIuser%2Frepo\fR), and "groups" map to the apimgr concept of "org".
.TP
.B bitbucket
Bitbucket Cloud (api v2.0). Reads \fBBITBUCKET_API_URL\fR + \fBBITBUCKET_ACCESS_TOKEN\fR (Bearer; OAuth or workspace/repo access tokens). Bitbucket calls orgs "workspaces" — apimgr accepts both \fIorg\fR and \fIworkspace\fR as the action name. State vocabulary differs: PRs use \fIOPEN|MERGED|DECLINED|SUPERSEDED\fR (\fB\-\-state open|closed|merged|all\fR is auto-translated); issues use \fInew|open|resolved|closed|invalid|duplicate|wontfix|on hold\fR (pass through). The PR \fIclose\fR action maps to Bitbucket's \fIdecline\fR. Releases are not supported (Bitbucket has no release API; tags only).
.TP
.B docker
Docker Hub or private registry. \fI[stub]\fR
.TP
.B harbor
Harbor (self-host). \fI[stub]\fR
.TP
.B quay
Quay.io / Project Quay. \fI[stub]\fR

.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B verify
Hit the provider's \fI/user\fR endpoint and confirm the token works; print the authenticated identity.
.TP
.B user [get]
Get a user's profile. Defaults to the authed user; pass \fB\-\-user NAME\fR to look up someone else.
.TP
.B org [get|all]
\fBget\fR returns a single org's metadata; \fBall\fR lists every repo in that org. Both require \fB\-\-org NAME\fR.
.TP
.B repo [list|get|create|delete|all]
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlist\fR — your repos (or \fB\-\-user NAME\fR's repos)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBget\fR — a single repo's details (\fB\-\-repo USER/REPO\fR or auto-detect from cwd)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcreate\fR — create a repo (\fB\-\-repo OWNER/NAME\fR; \fB\-\-visibility public|private\fR; \fB\-\-body "description"\fR). Owner = authed user creates under user; otherwise creates under org.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdelete\fR — destructive; prompts unless \fB\-\-force\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBall\fR — when \fB\-\-org NAME\fR set: every repo in org. Otherwise: same as \fBlist\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B issue [list|get N|create|close N|comment N]
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlist\fR — issues for the target repo. Filter with \fB\-\-state open|closed|all\fR (default \fIopen\fR), cap with \fB\-\-limit N\fR. PRs are stripped from github/gitea results because they share the \fI/issues\fR endpoint.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBget N\fR — single issue by number (or by IID for gitlab)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcreate\fR — \fB\-\-title TEXT\fR (required), \fB\-\-body TEXT\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBclose N\fR — close issue N
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcomment N\fR — \fB\-\-body TEXT\fR adds a comment to issue N
.RE
.TP
.B pr [list|get N|create|merge N|close N]
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlist\fR — PRs (or merge-requests on GitLab) for the target repo. \fB\-\-state open|closed|merged|all\fR (gitlab adds \fImerged\fR; github/gitea use \fIclosed\fR for both rejected and merged).
.IP \(bu 2
\fBget N\fR — single PR/MR by number/IID
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcreate\fR — \fB\-\-title TEXT\fR (required), \fB\-\-branch SOURCE\fR (required, the source branch), \fB\-\-base TARGET\fR (target branch — defaults to repo's default_branch via a one-shot lookup), \fB\-\-body TEXT\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmerge N\fR — merge PR/MR N. Prompts unless \fB\-\-force\fR. Reports success or refusal reason.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBclose N\fR — close without merging
.RE
.TP
.B release [list|get TAG|create|delete TAG]
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlist\fR — releases for the target repo, capped at \fB\-\-limit\fR (default 30)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBget TAG\fR — single release by tag name. github/gitea also accept a numeric release id.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcreate\fR — \fB\-\-tag NAME\fR (required), \fB\-\-title TEXT\fR (defaults to tag), \fB\-\-body TEXT\fR, \fB\-\-branch REF\fR (target ref — github/gitea use \fItarget_commitish\fR; gitlab uses \fIref\fR and defaults to the project's default_branch when omitted)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdelete TAG\fR — delete the release. github/gitea: the underlying git tag is NOT removed; that's a separate \fI/git/refs/tags\fR call. gitlab: deletes the release record only.
.RE
.TP
.B api PATH
Raw GET against an arbitrary API path (debug / one-off). Returns the JSON response unmodified.

.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-repo \fI\,USER/REPO\/\fR
Target repository. If unset, auto-detected from \fIgit remote get-url origin\fR in cwd.
.TP
.B \-\-user \fI\,NAME\/\fR
Target user (for \fIuser get\fR / \fIrepo list\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-org \fI\,NAME\/\fR
Target org (for \fIorg get|all\fR / \fIrepo all\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-token \fI\,TOKEN\/\fR
Override the configured auth token for this invocation.
.TP
.B \-\-official
Use the public service for the chosen provider (overrides the self-host URL).
.TP
.B \-\-title \fI\,TEXT\/\fR
Title for create-issue / create-pr (planned actions).
.TP
.B \-\-body \fI\,TEXT\/\fR
Body / description for create-* actions.
.TP
.B \-\-state \fIopen|closed|all\fR
List filter (planned actions).
.TP
.B \-\-limit \fI\,N\/\fR
Cap result count. Default \fBAPIMGR_DEFAULT_LIMIT\fR (30).
.TP
.B \-\-branch \fI\,NAME\/\fR
Source branch for \fIpr create\fR (the branch the PR is from).
.TP
.B \-\-base \fI\,NAME\/\fR
Target/base branch for \fIpr create\fR. Defaults to the repo's \fIdefault_branch\fR via a one-shot metadata lookup, cached for the duration of the invocation.
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIjson|table\fR
Output format. Default: table for terminals, JSON otherwise.
.TP
.B \-\-visibility \fIpublic|private\fR
For \fIrepo create\fR. Default: public.
.TP
.B \-\-provider \fI\,NAME\/\fR
Force the provider when \fB$1\fR is an action (overrides auto-detect).
.TP
.B \-\-force
Skip confirmation on destructive ops (e.g. \fIrepo delete\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-\-version, \-\-config, \-\-reset-config, \-\-options, \-\-debug, \-\-raw
Standard meta-flags.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
\fBapimgr\fR does NOT hardcode any endpoint URLs — it reads everything from your environment. The resolver chain per provider is:

.TP
.B URL (default mode)
\fBAPIMGR_<P>_URL\fR  →  \fB<P>_API_URL\fR
.br
e.g. \fBGITHUB_API_URL\fR, \fBGITLAB_API_URL\fR, \fBGITEA_API_URL\fR.

.TP
.B URL (with --official)
\fBAPIMGR_<P>_OFFICIAL_URL\fR  →  \fB<P>_OFFICIAL_API_URL\fR  →  default-mode chain
.br
Set \fB<P>_OFFICIAL_API_URL\fR only when you want \fB\-\-official\fR to point somewhere different from your default. If only the default URL is set, \fB\-\-official\fR uses it too.

.TP
.B Token
\fB\-\-token\fR  →  \fBAPIMGR_<P>_TOKEN\fR  →  \fB<P>_ACCESS_TOKEN\fR  →  \fB<P>_TOKEN\fR
.br
Special case: docker also reads \fBDOCKER_HUB_API_KEY\fR.
.br
Tokens are best stored in \fI~/.config/secure/apimgr.txt\fR (mode 0600), sourced before settings.conf.

.TP
.B Default username
\fBAPIMGR_<P>_USERNAME\fR  →  \fB<P>_USERNAME\fR
.br
e.g. \fBGITHUB_USERNAME\fR, \fBGITLAB_USERNAME\fR.

.TP
.B APIMGR_DEFAULT_PROVIDER
Provider to use when none is specified and git-remote auto-detect doesn't yield one. Default: \fIgithub\fR.

.TP
.B APIMGR_GIT_HOST_<host>_PROVIDER
For self-host auto-detect: maps a hostname (dots → underscores) to a provider. Example: \fBAPIMGR_GIT_HOST_git_example_com_PROVIDER=gitea\fR.

.TP
.B APIMGR_API_TIMEOUT
\fBcurl --max-time\fR for every API call. Default 10 (seconds).

.TP
.B APIMGR_API_RETRY
\fBcurl --retry\fR count. Default 1.

.TP
.B APIMGR_DEFAULT_LIMIT
Default page-size cap for list operations. Default 30.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/apimgr/settings.conf
Generated by \fB\-\-config\fR. Sourced on every run.
.TP
.I ~/.config/secure/apimgr.txt
Optional. Sourced \fIbefore\fR settings.conf so secrets stay outside the per-script config dir. Use mode 0600.

.SH AUTO-DETECTION
When the first arg is a known action (\fBverify, user, org, repo, issue, pr, release, api\fR) instead of a provider, \fBapimgr\fR runs:
.IP 1.
\fIgit remote get-url origin\fR in the cwd to identify the provider.
.IP 2.
If that fails, falls back to \fB$APIMGR_DEFAULT_PROVIDER\fR.

For self-host hostnames, set \fBAPIMGR_GIT_HOST_<host>_PROVIDER\fR so detection works against your instance.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B apimgr github verify
Confirm GitHub credentials work.
.TP
.B apimgr verify
Verify the auto-detected (or default) provider.
.TP
.B apimgr repo get
Get details of the repo whose .git lives in cwd.
.TP
.B apimgr github repo all --user octocat
List every repo owned by user \fIoctocat\fR.
.TP
.B apimgr github org all --org casjay-dotfiles
List every repo in the casjay-dotfiles org.
.TP
.B apimgr --official github verify
Force the public api.github.com endpoint even if APIMGR_GITHUB_URL is set.
.TP
.B apimgr github api /rate_limit
Raw GET against an arbitrary API path.
.TP
.B apimgr github repo create --repo myorg/newrepo --visibility private --body "Description"
Create a private repo under myorg.
.TP
.B apimgr github repo delete --repo me/scratchpad --force
Delete a repo, skipping the confirmation prompt.

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
Report at https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/scripts/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
