.\" Manpage for captive-auth
.TH man 1 "08 May 2026" "202606040840-git" "captive-auth"

.SH NAME
captive-auth \- detect and auto-authenticate through captive portal hotspots

.SH DESCRIPTION
Checks for internet connectivity and, if a captive portal is detected,
attempts to authenticate automatically by fetching the portal page and
submitting its accept form.
Falls back to opening a browser if automatic authentication fails.

.SH SYNOPSIS
captive-auth [options]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display the full help.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display current version.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Create user settings file.
.TP
.B \-\-options
Show all available options.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-auto\-auth
Disable automatic form submission; only detect and report the portal URL.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-browser
Disable the browser fallback when auto\-auth fails.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Output debugging information.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Removes all formatting.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Connected (already online or authentication succeeded).
.TP
.B 1
Captive portal detected; authentication failed or was skipped.
.TP
.B 2
No network connectivity.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Settings are stored in
.I ~/.config/myscripts/captive-auth/settings.conf
and include:
.PP
.B CAPTIVE_AUTH_AUTO_AUTH
\- Enable/disable automatic form submission (default: yes)
.PP
.B CAPTIVE_AUTH_OPEN_BROWSER
\- Enable/disable browser fallback (default: yes)
.PP
.B CAPTIVE_AUTH_CHECK_URL
\- Connectivity probe URL (default: http://connectivitycheck.gstatic.com/generate_204)
.PP
.B CAPTIVE_AUTH_RETRY_WAIT
\- Seconds to wait after auth attempt before re-checking (default: 2)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B captive-auth
Check connectivity and auto-authenticate if behind a portal.
.TP
.B captive-auth \-\-no\-auto\-auth
Detect portal and print the URL without submitting anything.
.TP
.B captive-auth \-\-no\-browser
Auto-auth only; do not open a browser if it fails.
.TP
.B captive-auth \-\-help

.SH FILES
.TP
.I
~/.config/myscripts/captive-auth/settings.conf
.TP
.I
/usr/local/bin/captive-auth

.SH TODO
Better documentation

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
