.\" Manpage for cloudflare
.TH man 1 "01 May 2026" "202605011518-git" "cloudflare"

.SH NAME
cloudflare \- Manage Cloudflare DNS records and tunnels from the CLI

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cloudflare
[\fI\,COMMAND\/\fR] [\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] [\fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cloudflare
talks to the Cloudflare v4 API to create, update, delete, and list DNS records, list zones, verify API access, run a Cloudflare Tunnel via Docker, and install a cron updater for dynamic-IP hosts. It uses Global API Key auth (\fBX-Auth-Email\fR + \fBX-Auth-Key\fR).

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B create [hostname]
Create A/AAAA records (or a single CNAME when \fB\-\-record CNAME\fR is supplied). Special hostnames: \fB@\fR creates A/AAAA at the apex plus a \fBwww\fR CNAME pointing back at the apex; \fB*\fR creates a wildcard. Falls back to update when the record already exists
.TP
.B update [hostname]
PATCH the existing A/AAAA (or CNAME if \fB\-\-record CNAME\fR) records for the given host. The record id is resolved by the (FQDN, type) pair so the update never hits the wrong record
.TP
.B delete [hostname]
Delete \fBevery\fR A/AAAA/CNAME record matching the host, not just the first one
.TP
.B list
Show name/type/id triples for the zone's records
.TP
.B verify
Hit \fB/user\fR with the configured credentials and print the authenticated email
.TP
.B zones
List all zones the account can see (one \fIname : id\fR per line)
.TP
.B tunnel
Start a Cloudflare Tunnel via Docker. Reuses a saved token from \fI~/.config/myscripts/cloudflare/tunnel-<host>\fR if present, otherwise creates a new tunnel through the API and saves the token
.TP
.B cron [hostname]
Drop a \fI/etc/cron.d/cloudflare_<host>\fR file that runs \fBcloudflare update <host>\fR every 5 minutes. Requires root; the cron entry uses the absolute path of the script

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-key \fI\,KEY\/\fR
Set the API key for this invocation
.TP
.B \-\-zone \fI\,DOMAIN\/\fR
Override \fBCLOUDFLARE_ZONE_NAME\fR
.TP
.B \-\-ip \fI\,ADDRESS\/\fR
Skip IP auto-detection. Used as the record content
.TP
.B \-\-proxy \fItrue\fR|\fIfalse\fR|\fIyes\fR|\fIno\fR
Enable or disable Cloudflare proxying for the record
.TP
.B \-\-record \fIA\fR|\fIAAAA\fR|\fICNAME\fR
DNS type to create/update. Defaults to \fBA\fR
.TP
.B \-\-id zone=\fIZONEID\fR
Manually set the zone id (skips lookup)
.TP
.B \-\-id record=\fIRECID\fR
Manually set the record id (skips lookup)
.TP
.B \-\-api
Show the full API response on \fBlist\fR
.TP
.B \-\-bulk
.TQ
.B \-\-delete-all
Bulk delete via filter, with confirmation
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress non-error output
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show script version
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate user config file in \fI~/.config/myscripts/cloudflare/settings.conf\fR
.TP
.B \-\-options
List all CLI options
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Bash debug output (\fBset -x\fR)
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Strip formatting from output

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL
Required. Account email used in the \fBX-Auth-Email\fR header
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY
Required. Global API Key used in the \fBX-Auth-Key\fR header
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_ZONE_NAME
Default zone for record commands. Overridable via \fB\-\-zone\fR
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_ZONE_ID
Optional. Pre-resolved zone id; skips the \fI/zones\fR lookup
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID
Optional. Pre-resolved account id; skips the \fI/accounts\fR lookup. Used by \fBtunnel\fR
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_HOSTNAME
Default record name. Falls back to \fB$(hostname -s)\fR
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_DNS_TYPE
Default record type (A, AAAA, or CNAME). Overridable via \fB\-\-record\fR
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_PROXY_ENABLED
Default proxy setting. Overridable via \fB\-\-proxy\fR
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_ADDR_IPv4
Skip IPv4 auto-detect
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_ADDR_IPv6
Skip IPv6 auto-detect
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_TUNNEL_KEY
Use a pre-existing tunnel token instead of creating a new one
.TP
.B CLOUDFLARE_API_URL
API base. Defaults to \fIhttps://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4\fR

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/cloudflare/settings.conf
Generated by \fB\-\-config\fR. Sourced on every run
.TP
.I ~/.config/secure/cloudflare.txt
Optional. If present, sourced before settings.conf so secrets can live outside the per-script config dir
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/cloudflare/tunnel-<host>
Persisted Cloudflare Tunnel tokens, mode 0600

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cloudflare zones
List every zone the account can see
.TP
.B cloudflare verify
Confirm credentials work
.TP
.B cloudflare \-\-zone casjay.com create amd
Create amd.casjay.com pointing at this host's public IPv4
.TP
.B cloudflare \-\-zone casjay.com \-\-record CNAME \-\-ip casjay.com create www
Create a www CNAME pointing at the apex
.TP
.B cloudflare \-\-zone casjay.com delete amd
Delete every A/AAAA/CNAME record for amd
.TP
.B sudo cloudflare \-\-zone casjay.com cron amd
Install /etc/cron.d/cloudflare_amd to refresh the record every 5 minutes
.TP
.B cloudflare tunnel
Run a Cloudflare Tunnel container; reuses a saved token if present

.SH AUTHENTICATION
The script uses Global API Key auth (\fBX-Auth-Email\fR + \fBX-Auth-Key\fR). The verify command hits \fB/user\fR which is the correct endpoint for that auth scheme. \fI/user/tokens/verify\fR is for API Token (Bearer) auth and is not used.

.SH HOSTNAME RESOLUTION
A short hostname like \fBamd\fR is automatically expanded to \fBamd.<zone>\fR before record lookups, so you do not have to type the full FQDN. \fB@\fR maps to the zone apex; \fB*\fR maps to \fB*.<zone>\fR.

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
Report at https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/scripts/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
