.\" Manpage for composemgr
.TH composemgr 1 "July 20, 2026" "202607201200-git" "composemgr"

.SH NAME
composemgr \- Docker Compose project manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B composemgr
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
composemgr is a Docker Compose project management tool that simplifies managing multiple Docker
Compose applications. It provides functionality for installing, starting, stopping, and managing
Docker Compose services, along with utilities for configuration management, environment variable
handling, and nginx proxy generation.

The tool automatically detects the host's real IPv4 and IPv6 addresses from the default-route network
device (excluding container, VPN, and loopback devices) and stores them in
.BR HOST_IP_4
and
.BR HOST_IP_6
environment variables, which are then made available to containers. This is particularly useful
for services that need to know the host's real network address.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initialize composemgr configuration and environment files.

.TP
.B install [\fIPROJECT\fR|\fIGIT-URL\fR|\fICOMPOSE-URL\fR]
Install and set up a Docker Compose project. Accepts a bare project name (resolved against the
configured git org), a full git repository URL (cloned directly, directory named after the repo,
falling back to \fIorg\fR_\fIrepo\fR on a naming conflict), or a direct URL to a compose file
(\fI.yaml\fR/\fI.yml\fR, downloaded into a new directory named from the source host and a short
hash of the URL path). Multiple arguments may be mixed in one invocation. Generates necessary
configuration files, creates required Docker networks, and optionally starts the containers.

.TP
.B remove [\fIPROJECT\fR]
Remove a Docker Compose project. Stops containers, removes data directories, and cleans up
associated resources.

.TP
.B up [\fIPROJECT\fR]
Start Docker Compose containers. If the \fB--env\fR flag is used with \fBCOMPOSEMGR_INIT=yes\fR,
prompts for editing of configuration files before startup.

.TP
.B down [\fIPROJECT\fR]
Stop and remove Docker Compose containers.

.TP
.B ps
List running containers for the current Docker Compose project.

.TP
.B logs
Display live logs from running containers using docker compose logs -f.

.TP
.B restart
Restart Docker Compose containers (docker compose restart).

.TP
.B new [\fIPROJECT\fR]
Create a new Docker Compose project. Generates a docker-compose.yaml template with default
services, environment files, license, README, and .gitignore.

.TP
.B edit [\fIFILE\fR]
Edit the docker-compose file or other project files using \fB$EDITOR\fR.

.TP
.B show [\fIFILE\fR]
Display the contents of the docker-compose.yaml file.

.TP
.B env
Update or regenerate the default environment file. Sets up standard variables including
database URLs, API keys, secret tokens, and other configuration parameters.

.TP
.B get [\fIURL\fR]
Download a docker-compose.yaml file from a remote URL and save it to the current project directory.

.TP
.B generate [\fIDIR\fR]
Generate a complete docker-compose.yaml template for a new project in the specified directory.

.TP
.B backup [\fIPROJECT\fR]
Backup project data, configuration, and associated databases to a timestamped tar.gz archive.

.TP
.B network [\fICOMMAND\fR]
Manage Docker networks. Passes arguments directly to docker network (e.g., \fBls\fR, \fBcreate\fR, \fBrm\fR).

.TP
.B cat
Display the contents of all YAML files (docker-compose.yaml, docker-compose.yml, etc.) in the current project.

.TP
.B nginx [\fIHOST\fR] [\fIURL\fR]
Generate an nginx proxy configuration for the current project using the gen-nginx utility.

.TP
.B repo [\fBpull\fR|\fBpush\fR|\fBcommit\fR]
Perform git operations on the project repository:
.RS
.IP \fBpull\fR
Fetch and merge changes from the remote repository.
.IP \fBpush\fR
Push commits to the remote repository.
.IP \fBcommit\fR
Commit changes with the specified message (default: "docker").
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help information.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Display the version number.

.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate or regenerate the user configuration file at
.IR ~/.config/myscripts/composemgr/settings.conf

.TP
.B \-\-reset\-config
Reset the configuration file to defaults.

.TP
.B \-\-options
Display all available command-line options.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debug mode with verbose output.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color output.

.TP
.B \-\-dir \fIPATH\fR
Set the working directory for operations. Creates the directory if it does not exist.

.TP
.B \-\-project \fINAME\fR
Set the project name and use its default location in
.IR $COMPOSEMGR_DEFAULT_PROJECT_DIR/NAME

.TP
.B \-\-name \fINAME\fR
Set the Docker Compose project name.

.TP
.B \-\-env
Update the environment file without running other commands.

.TP
.B \-\-prod
Use production run level (affects which compose file is selected).

.TP
.B \-\-devel
Use development run level (default).

.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress non-error output.

.TP
.B \-\-force
Force operations to proceed without confirmation.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-env
Disable automatic environment file loading.

.TP
.B \-\-yes\-*
Accept all prompts (for automation).

.TP
.B \-\-no\-*
Reject all prompts (for automation).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_CWD
Current working directory for operations. Defaults to
.IR $PWD

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_CONFIG_DIR
Directory for configuration files. Defaults to
.IR $HOME/.config/myscripts/composemgr

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_DEFAULT_ENV_FILE
Name of the default environment file. Defaults to
.I default.env

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_ENV_ENABLED
Enable/disable automatic environment loading. Set to "yes" or "no". Defaults to "yes".

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_DOCKER_COMPOSE_FILE_NAME
Name of the docker-compose file to use. Defaults to
.I compose.yaml

.TP
.B COMPOSE_ENV_FILES
Colon-separated list of environment files to load. Defaults to
.IR $COMPOSEMGR_CONFIG_DIR/compose.env

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_DEFAULT_PROJECT_DIR
Default directory for projects. Defaults to
.IR /srv/$USER/compose

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_GIT_ORG_URL
Base URL for git repository organization. Defaults to
.I https://github.com/composemgr

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_DEFAULT_RUN_LEVEL
Default run level: "prod" or "devel". Defaults to "devel".

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_PROJECT_NAME
Name of the current project.

.TP
.B CURRENT_IP_4
Auto-detected IPv4 address of the default-route device.

.TP
.B CURRENT_IP_6
Auto-detected IPv6 address of the default-route device.

.TP
.B HOST_IP_4
IPv4 address passed to containers (set from CURRENT_IP_4).

.TP
.B HOST_IP_6
IPv6 address passed to containers (set from CURRENT_IP_6).

.TP
.B TZ
Timezone for containers. Defaults to "America/New_York".

.TP
.B BASE_DOMAIN_NAME
Domain name for container hostnames.

.TP
.B BASE_HOST_NAME
Hostname for containers. Defaults to
.IR $HOSTNAME

.TP
.B BASE_DIR_STORAGE
Base directory for container storage. Defaults to
.IR /srv/$USER/compose

.TP
.B BASE_DIR_DATABASES
Base directory for database data. Defaults to
.IR /srv/$USER/databases

.TP
.B NGINX_PROXY_URL
URL to proxy to for nginx configuration.

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_SYSTEM_NOTIFY_ENABLED
Enable system notifications. Set to "yes" or "no". Defaults to "yes".

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_REMOTE_NOTIFY_ENABLED
Enable remote notifications. Set to "yes" or "no". Defaults to "yes".

.TP
.B COMPOSEMGR_REQUIRE_SUDO
Require sudo for operations. Set to "yes" or "no". Defaults to "no".

.TP
.B DB_* and APP_* variables
Various database and application configuration variables (e.g.
.IR DB_ADMIN_NAME ", " DB_ADMIN_PASS ", " APP_ADMIN_USER ", " APP_SECRET_KEY )
are generated and available. See the generated
.I default.env
file for a complete list.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/composemgr/settings.conf
Primary configuration file for composemgr.

.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/composemgr/compose.env
Global environment file sourced for all projects.

.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/composemgr/backups/YEAR/MONTH-DAY/
Backup storage directory.

.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/composemgr
Executable script location.

.TP
.I {PROJECT_DIR}/docker-compose.yaml
Main Docker Compose configuration file.

.TP
.I {PROJECT_DIR}/default.env
Project-specific environment variables.

.TP
.I {PROJECT_DIR}/app.env
Additional application-specific environment variables.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B composemgr \-\-help
Show help information.

.TP
.B composemgr init
Initialize configuration and environment.

.TP
.B composemgr install myapp
Install a project from https://github.com/composemgr/myapp.

.TP
.B composemgr install https://gitea.example.org/org/myapp
Clone a Docker Compose project directly from any git host.

.TP
.B composemgr install https://example.com/configs/myapp/docker-compose.yaml
Download a compose file directly into a new project directory.

.TP
.B composemgr \-\-dir /path/to/project up
Start containers in a specific directory.

.TP
.B composemgr \-\-project myapp ps
List containers for a project.

.TP
.B composemgr backup myapp
Backup a project to ~/.config/myscripts/composemgr/backups/YEAR/MONTH-DAY/.

.TP
.B composemgr new myproject
Create a new docker-compose project.

.TP
.B composemgr nginx myhostname http://container:3000
Generate nginx proxy configuration.

.TP
.B composemgr repo pull
Update project from git repository.

.SH TODO
Better inline documentation and additional examples.

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs. Report issues at https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR docker (1),
.BR docker-compose (1),
.BR bash (1)
