.\" Manpage for decrypt
.TH man 1 "14 October 2025" "202602020740-git" "decrypt"

.SH NAME
decrypt \- Decrypt files and text using OpenSSL AES-256-CBC encryption

.SH DESCRIPTION
A simple decryption utility that uses OpenSSL AES-256-CBC with PBKDF2 key derivation to decrypt files or piped text. Supports password storage in configuration for automated decryption workflows.

.SH SYNOPSIS
decrypt [options] <file>
echo 'encrypted text' | decrypt [options]

.SH USAGE
.TP
.B decrypt /path/to/file.enc
Decrypt encrypted file using configured password
.TP
.B echo 'encrypted text' | decrypt
Decrypt piped text using configured password
.TP
.B decrypt --config
Generate configuration file and set password

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
Display help message with usage information
.TP
.B --version
Show current version information
.TP
.B --config
Generate user configuration file with password storage
.TP
.B --options
Show all available options
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debugging output
.TP
.B --raw
Remove all formatting from output
.TP
.B --silent
Suppress informational messages

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B decrypt secret.txt.enc
Decrypt secret.txt.enc file to secret.txt
.TP
.B echo 'U2FsdGVkX19...' | decrypt
Decrypt base64 encrypted text from stdin
.TP
.B decrypt --config
Create configuration and set decryption password

.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/decrypt/settings.conf
Main configuration file with password setting
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/decrypt/.password
Optional password file (overrides settings.conf)
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/myscripts/decrypt/backups/
Configuration backup directory
.TP
.I ~/.local/log/decrypt/
Log directory for operations

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B DECRYPT_PASSWORD
Decryption password (default: verylongsecurepassword)
.TP
.B DECRYPT_CONFIG_DIR
Configuration directory (default: $HOME/.config/myscripts/decrypt)

.SH ENCRYPTION DETAILS
.TP
.B Algorithm
AES-256-CBC with PBKDF2 key derivation
.TP
.B Password Source
Configuration file or .password file in config directory
.TP
.B Output
Decrypted file with .enc extension removed, or stdout for piped input

.SH SECURITY NOTES
Store passwords securely in configuration files with restrictive permissions (600). The default password should be changed immediately after installation. For enhanced security, use the .password file instead of embedding passwords in settings.conf.

.SH NOTES
This tool provides simple file and text decryption using OpenSSL. Pairs with the 'encrypt' command for complete encryption/decryption workflows. Password must match the one used during encryption.

.SH SEE ALSO
encrypt(1), openssl(1)

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/scripts/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
