.\" Manpage for for_each_in
.TH FOR_EACH_IN 1 "May 2026" "202606040840-git" "for_each_in"

.SH NAME
for_each_in \- run a command for each item matching a glob, with registry-aware injection

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B for_each_in
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIPATTERN\fR [\fB--not\fR] [\fB\-FLAG\fR \fIPATH\fR]... \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B for_each_in
expands a quoted glob pattern and runs a command once for each matching
filesystem entry.  Conditions filter which entries are processed.  The
loop item is injected into the command automatically based on a built-in
command registry — no placeholders required.

.SH PATTERN
A quoted glob string such as
.IR "*" ,
.IR "../*" ,
or
.IR "./*/*" .
Quoting is required to prevent the shell from expanding it before
.B for_each_in
receives it.  May also be supplied via
.BR --dir .

.SH CONDITIONS
Conditions are standard bash test flags.  All conditions are ANDed — every
one must pass for an entry to be processed.  Conditions may be repeated.

.TP
.BI \-FLAG " PATH"
.I PATH
is relative to the loop item.  Use
.B .
to test the item itself.
.TP
.BI \-e " PATH"
Exists (any type).
.TP
.BI \-f " PATH"
Regular file.
.TP
.BI \-d " PATH"
Directory.
.TP
.BI \-L " PATH"
Symbolic link.
.TP
.BI \-r / \-w / \-x " PATH"
Readable / writable / executable.
.TP
.BI \-s " PATH"
Non-empty file.
.TP
.BI \-b / \-c / \-p / \-S " PATH"
Block device / character device / named pipe / socket.
.TP
.BI \-u / \-g / \-k " PATH"
Setuid / setgid / sticky bit.

.SH NEGATION
.TP
.BI \-\-not " \-FLAG PATH"
Invert the immediately following condition.  Example:
.B --not -L .
skips symbolic links.

.SH COMMAND INJECTION
The command name is looked up in a built-in registry that determines
where the loop item is injected.

.TP
.B dash-C group:\ git, tig, make
Item injected as
.B -C item
before the subcommand.
.RS
.nf
git pull       \[->]  git -C item pull
make install   \[->]  make -C item install
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B dir-flag group:\ gitadmin, gitcommit, gitignore, gen-*, publishit,
.B backupapp, run_server, setupmgr, pkmgr, dockermgr, composemgr,
.B tryforever, run_command, timeit, logr, virtmgr, lxcmgr, virt-check,
.B update-lecerts, update-ip, update-motd, update-resolv, reqpkgs
Item injected as
.B --dir item
before the subcommand.
.RS
.nf
gitadmin pull      \[->]  gitadmin --dir item pull
gen-readme update  \[->]  gen-readme --dir item update
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B destdir group:\ cp, mv, rsync, ln, install
Item appended as the destination (last argument).
.RS
.nf
cp -Rfv ./AI.md    \[->]  cp -Rfv ./AI.md item
rsync -avhP ./src/ \[->]  rsync -avhP ./src/ item
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B default (everything else)
Item appended as the last argument.
.RS
.nf
unlink     \[->]  unlink item
chmod 755  \[->]  chmod 755 item
.fi
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-dry\-run"
Print each command before it would run; do not execute anything.
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
Print each command before executing it.
.TP
.B \-\-stop\-on\-error
Halt the loop on the first non-zero exit.
.TP
.B \-\-summary
Print a processed / skipped / failed count at the end.
.TP
.BI \-\-dir " PATTERN"
Glob pattern — alias for the positional
.I PATTERN
argument.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate (or regenerate) the user settings file.
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-config
Delete and regenerate the user settings file.
.TP
.B \-\-options
List all available options.
.TP
.B \-\-completions " {short|long|array|list}"
Emit completion data in the requested format.
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress informational output.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable bash
.B set -x
tracing.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color output.  Honoured alongside the
.B NO_COLOR
environment variable.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display the current version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display the built-in help and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Pull every git repo under the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "*" -d .git gitadmin pull
.fi
.RE
.TP
Commit all repos:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "*" -d .git gitcommit all
.fi
.RE
.TP
Regenerate readme in every project that already has one:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "*" -f README.md gen-readme update
.fi
.RE
.TP
Copy AI.md into every project dir under the parent:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "../*" -d . cp -Rfv ./AI.md
.fi
.RE
.TP
Rsync a template directory into every matching subdir:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "../*" -d . rsync -avhP ./tmpl/
.fi
.RE
.TP
Remove all symlinks under a two-level glob:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "./*/*" -L . unlink
.fi
.RE
.TP
Run make in every dir with a Makefile, stop on first error:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in --stop-on-error "*" -f Makefile make build
.fi
.RE
.TP
Multiple conditions — repo must have both .git and a Makefile:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "*" -d .git -f Makefile make install
.fi
.RE
.TP
Skip symlinks:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in "../*/src" --not -L . cp -Rfv ./conf.d
.fi
.RE
.TP
Dry-run with summary:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for_each_in -n --summary "*" -d .git gitadmin pull
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/for_each_in/settings.conf
User settings file.  Generated by
.BR --config .
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/myscripts/for_each_in/backups/
Backup copies of the settings file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set (to any value), disables all ANSI color output.
.TP
.B FOR_EACH_IN_DRY_RUN
Default value for
.BR --dry-run .
.TP
.B FOR_EACH_IN_VERBOSE
Default value for
.BR --verbose .
.TP
.B FOR_EACH_IN_STOP_ON_ERROR
Default value for
.BR --stop-on-error .
.TP
.B FOR_EACH_IN_SUMMARY
Default value for
.BR --summary .
.TP
.B FOR_EACH_IN_PATTERN
Default glob pattern — equivalent to passing
.BR --dir .

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
