.\" Manpage for mybrowser
.TH man 1 "10 Sep 2025" "202509092141-git" "mybrowser"

.SH NAME
mybrowser

.SH DESCRIPTION
mybrowser - Intelligent web browser launcher with multiple browser support
.PP
A smart command-line utility that automatically detects and launches the best available
web browser on your system. Supports GUI browsers, console-based browsers, Tor browser
for privacy, and private/incognito modes. Provides unified interface across different
browser types and platforms.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mybrowser
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIURL\fR]
.br
.B mybrowser
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display comprehensive help information with usage examples.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display current version information.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate user configuration file with browser preferences.
.TP
.B \-\-options
Show all available command-line options and parameters.
.TP
.B \-\-tor
Launch Tor browser for anonymous and private browsing.
.TP
.B \-\-i2p
Launch I2P browser for anonymous browsing on the I2P network.
.TP
.B \-\-private, \-\-incognito
Open browser in private/incognito mode without saving history.
.TP
.B \-\-console
Force usage of console-based browser (lynx, links, w3m).
.TP
.B \-\-term
Launch interactive terminal browser mode with menu interface.
.TP
.B \-\-menu
Display browser selection menu to choose from available browsers.
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress progress and notification messages during execution.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable detailed debugging output for troubleshooting.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Remove all color formatting and output raw text.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mybrowser
Launch default browser with configured start page.
.TP
.B mybrowser https://github.com
Open GitHub website in default browser.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-private https://example.com
Open example.com in private/incognito browser window.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-tor
Launch Tor browser for anonymous browsing.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-i2p
Launch I2P browser for anonymous browsing on I2P network.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-console https://news.ycombinator.com
Open Hacker News using terminal-based browser.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-term
Start interactive terminal mode for URL input.
.TP
.B mybrowser \-\-menu
Display menu to select from available browsers.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/mybrowser/settings.conf
Main configuration file containing browser preferences and custom settings.
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/mybrowser/backups/
Directory containing configuration file backups.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/mybrowser
Main executable script location.

.SH SUPPORTED BROWSERS
.TP
.B GUI Browsers
Firefox, Chrome, Chromium, Opera, Brave, Vivaldi, Safari, Edge
.TP
.B Console Browsers
lynx, links, w3m
.TP
.B Privacy Browsers
Tor Browser, I2P Browser, configured private modes

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BROWSER
System default browser environment variable.
.TP
.B MYBROWSER
Override default browser selection.
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Used to determine if GUI browser should be launched.

.SH TODO
Better documentation and browser detection

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>