.\" Manpage for myeditor
.TH man 1 "10 Sep 2025" "202509092141-git" "myeditor"

.SH NAME
myeditor

.SH DESCRIPTION
myeditor - Intelligent text editor launcher with multi-editor support
.PP
A smart command-line utility that automatically detects and launches the best available
text editor on your system. Supports both GUI editors (VS Code, Atom, Gedit) and
console-based editors (Vim, Nano, Emacs). Provides unified interface for editing
files and directories across different editor types.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myeditor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR|\fIDIRECTORY\fR]
.br
.B myeditor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display comprehensive help information with usage examples.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display current version information.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate user configuration file with editor preferences.
.TP
.B \-\-options
Show all available command-line options and parameters.
.TP
.B \-\-console
Force usage of console-based editor (vim, nano, emacs).
.TP
.B \-\-term
Launch interactive terminal editor mode with file selection menu.
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress progress and notification messages during execution.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable detailed debugging output for troubleshooting.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Remove all color formatting and output raw text.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B myeditor
Launch default editor with empty file.
.TP
.B myeditor file.txt
Open file.txt for editing in default editor.
.TP
.B myeditor /path/to/project/
Open project directory in editor (if supported by the editor).
.TP
.B myeditor \-\-console file.sh
Force console editor (vim/nano/emacs) to edit shell script.
.TP
.B myeditor \-\-term
Start interactive terminal mode with file selection.
.TP
.B myeditor ~/.bashrc
Edit bash configuration file.
.TP
.B myeditor \-\-console /etc/hosts
Edit system hosts file using terminal editor.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/myeditor/settings.conf
Main configuration file containing editor preferences and custom settings.
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/myeditor/backups/
Directory containing configuration file backups.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/myeditor
Main executable script location.

.SH SUPPORTED EDITORS
.TP
.B GUI Editors
VS Code, Code-Insiders, VS Code OSS, Brackets, Geany, Gedit, Kate, Notepadqq, Bluefish
.TP
.B Console Editors
Vim, Neovim, Nano, Emacs, Jed
.TP
.B IDE Support
Automatically detects and uses appropriate editor for file types

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR
System default editor environment variable.
.TP
.B MYEDITOR
Override default editor selection.
.TP
.B VISUAL
Alternative editor environment variable (GUI preference).
.TP
.B TERMINAL_APP
Used to determine if terminal editor should be launched.

.SH EDITOR SELECTION
myeditor follows this priority order when selecting an editor:
.TP
1. User-configured MYEDITOR setting
2. GUI editors (if display available): VS Code variants, Brackets, Geany
3. Console editors: Vim, Neovim, Nano, Emacs
4. Fallback to system EDITOR variable

.SH TODO
Better documentation and editor detection

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>