.\" Manpage for myterminal
.TH man 1 "10 Sep 2025" "202509092155-git" "myterminal"

.SH NAME
myterminal

.SH DESCRIPTION
myterminal - Intelligent terminal launcher with advanced features
.PP
An advanced command-line utility that automatically detects and launches the best
available terminal emulator on your system. Supports 60+ terminals with
developer-focused prioritization, GPU acceleration detection, multiplexer
integration, and terminal installation capabilities.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B myterminal
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMANDS\fR]
.br
.B myterminal
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display comprehensive help information with usage examples.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display current version information.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Generate user configuration file with terminal preferences.
.TP
.B \-\-options
Show all available command-line options and parameters.
.TP
.B \-\-dir \fIPATH\fR
Set the working directory for the launched terminal.
.TP
.B \-\-install \fITERMINAL\fR
Install a supported terminal emulator. Available options: ghostty, alacritty, rio, wezterm, foot.
.TP
.B \-\-tmux
Launch terminal with tmux session using default configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-screen
Launch terminal with screen session using default configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-silent
Suppress status and progress messages during execution.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable script debugging with verbose output.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Remove all color formatting from output.

.SH SUPPORTED TERMINALS
.PP
myterminal automatically detects and prioritizes terminals based on developer needs:

.SS Developer-Focused Terminals (Highest Priority)
.TP
.B ghostty
Modern terminal emulator by Mitchell Hashimoto with GPU acceleration
.TP
.B alacritty
Cross-platform, GPU-accelerated terminal emulator
.TP
.B kitty
Fast, feature-rich terminal with graphics support
.TP
.B wezterm
Rust-based terminal with powerful features
.TP
.B rio
Hardware-accelerated terminal built in Rust

.SS Desktop Environment Terminals
.TP
.B konsole
KDE's default terminal emulator
.TP
.B gnome-terminal
GNOME's default terminal emulator
.TP
.B xfce4-terminal
XFCE's terminal emulator
.TP
.B mate-terminal
MATE desktop terminal

.SS Lightweight Terminals
.TP
.B foot
Fast, lightweight Wayland terminal
.TP
.B termite
Keyboard-centric terminal
.TP
.B st
Simple terminal (suckless)
.TP
.B urxvt
rxvt-unicode terminal

.SS Console/SSH Mode
When no display is available or in SSH mode, myterminal uses:
.TP
.B tmux
Modern terminal multiplexer
.TP
.B screen
Classic terminal multiplexer
.TP
.B zellij
Modern Rust-based multiplexer

.SH INSTALLATION FEATURE
.PP
myterminal can automatically install supported terminal emulators:

.SS GPU-Accelerated Terminals
Requires OpenGL/Vulkan support. myterminal automatically detects GPU capabilities:
.TP
.B ghostty, alacritty, rio, wezterm
These terminals require graphics acceleration and will check for GPU support before installation.

.SS Package Manager Terminals
.TP
.B foot
Installed via system package manager (apt, pacman, dnf).

.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Configuration file: ~/.config/myscripts/myterminal/settings.conf
.PP
The configuration file allows customization of:
.IP \(bu 4
Default terminal preferences
.IP \(bu 4
Multiplexer settings
.IP \(bu 4
Notification preferences
.IP \(bu 4
Color settings

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B myterminal
Launch the best available terminal emulator
.TP
.B myterminal --install ghostty
Install ghostty terminal emulator
.TP
.B myterminal --dir /tmp
Launch terminal in /tmp directory
.TP
.B myterminal --tmux
Launch terminal with tmux session
.TP
.B myterminal vim file.txt
Launch terminal running vim with file.txt
.TP
.B myterminal --console
Force usage of console-based tools in SSH environments

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B TERMINAL
Override automatic terminal detection
.TP
.B MYTERMINAL
Specific terminal preference
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Used to determine if GUI terminals are available

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/myterminal/settings.conf
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/myscripts/myterminal/backups/
Configuration backup directory
.TP
.I ~/.local/log/myterminal/
Log directory for debugging

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution
.TP
.B 1
General error or no terminal found
.TP
.B 2
Insufficient permissions
.TP
.B 3
Required command not found

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jason Hempstead (jason@casjaysdev.pro)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 Jason Hempstead, Casjays Developments
Licensed under WTFPL

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR terminal (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR screen (1),
.BR alacritty (1),
.BR kitty (1)