.\" Manpage for netstatg
.TH man 1 "14 October 2025" "202208141332-git" "netstatg"

.SH NAME
netstatg \- grep netstat output for network connections

.SH DESCRIPTION
A command-line utility that wraps netstat with grep functionality to search for specific network connections, ports, and services. Provides color-coded output and flexible search options for monitoring network activity.

.SH SYNOPSIS
netstatg [options] [search_pattern] [netstat_options] [grep_options]

.SH BASIC USAGE
.TP
.B netstatg
Display all network connections (equivalent to netstat -taupln)
.TP
.B netstatg <pattern>
Search for connections matching pattern
.TP
.B netstatg <pattern> <netstat_opts>
Search with custom netstat options
.TP
.B netstatg <pattern> <netstat_opts> <grep_opts>
Search with custom netstat and grep options

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
Display help message with usage information
.TP
.B --version
Display current version
.TP
.B --config
Generate user configuration file
.TP
.B --options
Show all available options
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debugging output with trace
.TP
.B --raw
Remove all formatting and colors from output
.TP
.B --silent
Suppress output messages
.TP
.B --dir <directory>
Set working directory

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B netstatg
Show all network connections
.TP
.B netstatg LISTEN
Show all listening ports
.TP
.B netstatg 8080
Search for connections on port 8080
.TP
.B netstatg ssh
Search for SSH connections
.TP
.B netstatg apache taupln
Search for Apache with specific netstat options
.TP
.B netstatg mysql la i
Search for MySQL with -la netstat options and -i grep options

.SH CONFIGURATION
netstatg supports user configuration for customizing default behavior.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/netstatg/settings.conf
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/myscripts/netstatg/backups/
Configuration backup directory
.TP
.I ~/.local/log/netstatg/
Log directory
.TP
.I ~/.cache/netstatg/
Cache directory

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B NETSTATG_CONFIG_DIR
Configuration directory (default: ~/.config/myscripts/netstatg)
.TP
.B NETSTATG_DEFAULT_OPTS
Default netstat options
.TP
.B NETSTATG_DEFAULT_GREP_OPTS
Default grep options
.TP
.B NETSTATG_OUTPUT_COLOR_1
Primary output color (default: 33)
.TP
.B NETSTATG_OUTPUT_COLOR_2
Secondary output color (default: 5)
.TP
.B NETSTATG_OUTPUT_COLOR_GOOD
Success color (default: 2)
.TP
.B NETSTATG_OUTPUT_COLOR_ERROR
Error color (default: 1)
.TP
.B NETSTATG_NOTIFY_ENABLED
Enable notifications (default: yes)

.SH SEARCH PATTERNS
netstatg accepts various search patterns:
.TP
.B Port numbers
8080, 443, 22, etc.
.TP
.B Service names
ssh, http, mysql, apache, nginx, etc.
.TP
.B Connection states
LISTEN, ESTABLISHED, TIME_WAIT, etc.
.TP
.B IP addresses
192.168.1.1, 10.0.0.1, etc.
.TP
.B Regular expressions
Any valid grep regex pattern

.SH NETSTAT OPTIONS
Common netstat options that can be passed:
.TP
.B -t
TCP connections
.TP
.B -u
UDP connections
.TP
.B -a
All sockets
.TP
.B -l
Listening sockets
.TP
.B -p
Show PID/Program name
.TP
.B -n
Numeric addresses

.SH NOTES
netstatg requires sudo privileges to display process information for all connections. If not running as root, you will be prompted for sudo password.

The script provides colored output by default. Use --raw flag to disable colors for scripting or piping to other commands.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B netstat
Network statistics command
.TP
.B grep
Text search utility
.TP
.B sudo
For displaying process information

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/scripts/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
