.\" Manpage for netstatl
.TH man 1 "14 October 2025" "202208141336-git" "netstatl"

.SH NAME
netstatl \- search netstat for listening ports and applications

.SH DESCRIPTION
A command-line utility that searches netstat output specifically for listening applications and ports. Provides easy-to-use interface for finding which applications are listening on which ports with color-coded output.

.SH SYNOPSIS
netstatl [options] [search_pattern|command]
.br
netstatl port [command|port_number]

.SH BASIC USAGE
.TP
.B netstatl
Show all applications that are listening
.TP
.B netstatl <command>
Show what ports a specific command is listening on
.TP
.B netstatl port <command|port>
Return port number if found, exit with 1 if not found

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
Display help message with usage information
.TP
.B --version
Display current version
.TP
.B --config
Generate user configuration file
.TP
.B --options
Show all available options
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debugging output with trace
.TP
.B --raw
Remove all formatting and colors from output
.TP
.B --silent
Suppress output messages
.TP
.B --dir <directory>
Set working directory

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B port
Special command to extract only port numbers from search results

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B netstatl
Show all listening applications and ports
.TP
.B netstatl apache
Show all ports Apache is listening on
.TP
.B netstatl nginx
Show all ports Nginx is listening on
.TP
.B netstatl sshd
Show SSH daemon listening ports
.TP
.B netstatl port apache
Return just the port numbers Apache is using
.TP
.B netstatl port 8080
Check if port 8080 is being used and by what

.SH CONFIGURATION
netstatl supports user configuration for customizing default behavior.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/myscripts/netstatl/settings.conf
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/myscripts/netstatl/backups/
Configuration backup directory
.TP
.I ~/.local/log/netstatl/
Log directory
.TP
.I ~/.cache/netstatl/
Cache directory

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B NETSTATL_CONFIG_DIR
Configuration directory (default: ~/.config/myscripts/netstatl)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_DEFAULT_OPTS
Default netstat options (default: taupln)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_OUTPUT_COLOR_1
Primary output color (default: 33)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_OUTPUT_COLOR_2
Secondary output color (default: 5)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_OUTPUT_COLOR_GOOD
Success color (default: 2)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_OUTPUT_COLOR_ERROR
Error color (default: 1)
.TP
.B NETSTATL_NOTIFY_ENABLED
Enable notifications (default: yes)

.SH SEARCH PATTERNS
netstatl accepts various search patterns:
.TP
.B Command names
apache, nginx, sshd, mysql, postgres, etc.
.TP
.B Port numbers
80, 443, 8080, 3306, 5432, etc.
.TP
.B Service names
http, https, ssh, mysql, postgresql, etc.
.TP
.B Process IDs
Any valid PID number

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The script uses netstat with the following default flags: -taupln
.TP
.B -t
TCP connections
.TP
.B -a
All sockets
.TP
.B -u
UDP connections
.TP
.B -p
Show PID/Program name
.TP
.B -l
Listening sockets only
.TP
.B -n
Numeric addresses

.SH NOTES
netstatl requires sudo privileges to display process information for all connections. The script will automatically request sudo access when needed.

The script provides colored output by default to highlight matching patterns. Use --raw flag to disable colors for scripting purposes.

The "port" subcommand extracts only port numbers from the output, useful for scripting and automation.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B netstat
Network statistics command
.TP
.B grep
Text search utility
.TP
.B awk
Text processing utility
.TP
.B sudo
For displaying process information

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/scripts/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
netstatg(1), ss(8), lsof(8), netstat(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
