.\" Manpage for transfer.sh
.TH man 1 "14 July 2022" "202207151435-git" "transfer.sh"

.SH NAME
transfer.sh

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
Transfer files to transfer.sh or your own custom transfer.sh server.
.TP
For details on running your own server see https://github.com/dutchcoders/transfer.sh.

.SH SYNOPSIS
transfer.sh [options] [command]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display the full help.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display current version.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Create user settings file.
.TP
.B \-\-options
Show all availabe options.
.TP
.B \-\-dir
Change current directory - not enabled
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Output debugging information.
.TP \-\-raw
Removes all formatting

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B transfer.sh [path/to/file] OR .R cat [path/to/file]|transfer.sh 
Send the contents 
.TP
.B transfer.sh scan [path/to/file] OR cat [path/to/file]|transfer.sh scan
upload and scan a file for viruses
.TP
.B transfer.sh virustotal [path/to/file] OR cat [path/to/file]|transfer.sh virustotal
upload and scan a file for viruses
.TP
.B transfer.sh backup [path/to/file] or OR [path/to/file]|transfer.sh backup
.B transfer.sh scan virustotal  encrypt
encrypt file and upload it
.TP
.B transfer.sh encrypt [path/to/file] or OR [path/to/file]|transfer.sh encrypt
encrypt file and upload it
.SH FILES
.TP
.I
~/.config/myscripts/transfer.sh/settings.conf
.TP
.I
/usr/local/bin/transfer.sh

.SH TODO
Better documentation

.SH LICENSE
WTFPL

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/casjay-dotfiles/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Jason Hempstead <jason@casjaysdev.pro>
